Interfaces are used within typescript in order
to define the data types for a grouping of
properties and methods.
Here is an example of an interface.
We are typically going to be exporting the
interface so we can use it in other files.
Then we use the interface keyword, followed
by an appropriate name.
The name is usually in Pascale Casing and
prefixed with the letter I.
Inside of our interface we’ve defined properties
with their data types.
This is the same as when we define properties
inside a class, except here we’re not setting
it equal to anything – we’re only defining
the properties type.
And here we’ve defined a method.
We’ve included the name of the method, any
parameters along with their data types, and
the return type which in this case is of type
void since nothing is being returned.
Also notice how we’re using semi-colons
at the end of every property and method definition.
Interfaces essentially create a contract between
the data and its defined type.
If at any time this contract is not being
adhered to, we’ll receive an error in our
editor usually in the form of a red squiggly
line.
So the pupose of interfaces is to provide
us with strong typing for groupings of properties
and methods which creates better tooling support
as we build, debug and maintain our code.
This means that interfaces and strong typing
in general are development time features.
So that when your actually your running your
application, you won’t be getting any console
or browser errors if the data that your displaying
doesn’t match your defined interface types.
You’ll just get potentially unexpected results.